Finally, the last built-in object or feature I want to show you are regular expressions.
Now what are regular expressions? Regular expressions are patterns used to match character combinations in
strings,
so basically like little search methods to search for certain characters or character combinations in
a string,
so in some text and regular expressions and how to write them are a topic for its own course to be honest
and you will find links to this or to some more information in a cheatsheet
but here, I want to show you how to use them and how Javascript supports regular expressions.
So let's start by creating a little string here and I'll keep it simple, it's just abc and then I create
a pattern, so a regular expression and here we can use a special syntax where we have forward slash
and another forward slash and between both slashes, we can write our regular expression which you want
to use.
For example if I use ab here and I now log pattern, what do you think we'll get if I hit run? We get
object RegExp.
So this is an object, indeed it's not a string or anything like this,
this is just a different syntax but it creates an object, it creates a regular expression and we can
use this pattern.
Now how can we use it?
We can run pattern.exec and pass the string on which we want to execute it.
Now in order to see something, I'll log whatever we get back from this execution here,
so I'll hit clear and I'll show you what we'll see,
we got ab,
notice that we have it in an array.
So this basically tells us that ab, our pattern here, was found in this array.
What if I remove the b here and I have ac, what will happen if I now hit run?
Now we get null because we don't find this pattern in this string, right?
If I change the pattern to bc and the string back to abc and I hit run, I of course find bc. What if
I change it to ac but I have the b in the middle and the string, notice that,
so what happens now? I get null because this specific pattern, an a followed by a c isn't found here.
Of course there are also ways to write regular expressions which use wildcards to allow for this case
where you would have a character between two other characters
but this basic expression here is just looking for an a followed by b.
What if I have this string abab
and now I it run?
Well I still only get ab,
we also can use the test function here
and what could you imagine that this function gives us?
It gives us true,
so basically test if this pattern matches the string.
It's not giving us back the match, just a true or false
if it was successful and we can also do it the other way around. We can use the string and then use the
match function here and I'll pass a pattern here.
What do you think we'll now get if I hit run? I get ab,
so it's like pattern.exec, just the other way around, that I just use my string and then say hey I want
to match this string with a certain pattern, instead of using a pattern and executing on a string.
Now as explained,
regular expressions are kind of a science for their own
and there are a lot of special characters you can use to build very complex queries and queries
can get as complex as this.
If you for example search for validate email regex and this is generally a good approach to learn
regular expressions, by searching for the problem you want to solve and then appending regex, and
then you get probably some forum discussions like this one here
and you get an example which regular expression you might want to use and this is the reason why I
am not diving super deep into this here,
I want to show you that it exists and how you can use it but learning regular expressions is much
more than this course could ever do for you because it's no regular expressions course and as you can
see or as you can tell by this expression, you could create a course of that but what's the use of regular expressions?
The use is that you can for example validate user input if you're having a form
and like the thing I just googled for, you want to make sure that the e-mail address the user entered
is a valid email address.
So he's not tricking you or he did not forget the @ sign or anything like this,
you can use a regular expression to do this because the other option would be to loop through the string
you get back and check each character for being an @ sign to find out if there is an @ sign and
so on
or use the indexof method
but all these methods are kind of hard, especially as you have to combine them to really validate an
email address for example
and then on the other hand, patterns like regular expressions make this very simple.
Yes the pattern looks difficult but for one, you can Google for help,
secondly if you know how to use it, it isn't that difficult anymore and it is really quick,
it offers a great performance and it's a one-liner.
It's really simple then and you don't have to write multiple nested loops to achieve the same with a
slower performance.
So that is where regular expressions are really helpful
and with exec and match here as well as the test method, you have three important methods to find out if a certain
string matches this.
Of course you can not only use it for matching user input,
you might also be interested in finding a certain piece of text in a longer text and here, regular expressions
can help too,
so that is why they are really useful.